https://tennisnow.com/gauff-outshines-sun-for-beijing-round-of-16/
Gauff Outshines Sun for Beijing Round of 16 – Tennis Now Skip to content TENNIS NOW Get the newsletter × Search Tennis Now Search × Search Tennis Now Search → Listen to this article 1× ✕ By Richard Pagliaro | Monday, October 5, 2026 Photo credit: Jon Buckle/ROLEX Approaching midnight in Beijing, Coco Gauff stopped a stubborn Sun rise. Gauff soared through nine of the  last 10 games subduing Chinese teenage phenom Sun Xinran 7-5, 6-1 to reach the China Open round of 16 tonight. Reigning US Open girls’ champion Sun was attacking her shots building a 5-4 lead. Deadlocked at 15-All in the 10th game, Gauff lost a rally before successfully challenging using Video Assistant Review. The video replay supported Gauff’s case the LED sideboard signage flashed during the point—just as Alexander Zverev used VAR successfully against Novak Djokovic in the Beijing men’s quarterfinals—so instead of Gauff being down 15-30, the point was replayed. That challenge sparked Gauff, who streaked through nine of the next 10 games. Gauff imposed her net game winning 17 of 22 trips to net and converting six of eight break points. The third-seeded Gauff will play Elise Mertens for a quarterfinal spot in a draw that was blown wide open after new world No. 1 Elena Rybakina and No. 2 Aryna Sabalenka were both upset casualties. Despite facing a bold and fresh young face, Gauff continued her success on Chinese soil. The 2024 Beijing champion has reached at least the semifinals in all five of her prior main-draw appearances in Chinese tournaments. At age 16 years, 74 days, Sun came out playing fearless combinations and showed the skills that Gauff says will make them long-time rivals. “I mean I think we play a little bit different, but I think she’s a little bit more mature I was at 16,” Gauff said. “She’s an incredible player. “I knew going it was going to be a tough match. The junior career she had is incredible and obviously I think she’s going to do great at this level…I’m looking forward to future matches we have.” Sun broke back at love then held firm flashing a clenched fist toward her box leading 3-2. The Chinese teenager was striking with confidence stamping a strong hold at 15 for a 5-4 lead. In the following game, Gauff lost a baseline rally then successfully challenged, using VAR, after pointing out the LED side panels lit up during the point causing hindrance. Video reviewed showed the signage did flicker during the point. So instead of Gauff being down 15-30, the pair replayed the point, which Gauff won for 30-15 before taking the game. An assertive Gauff imposed her net game, forcing errors to carve out the crucial break for 6-5 after 54 minutes. Serving for the set, Gauff opened the game with a flying smash then closed the 58-minute set with a twisting ace. Gauff won six points in a row to seal a one-set lead. Sky high in the opening set, Sun looked tearful as she left the court before the second set. Sun double-faulted away the opening break to start the second set and slumped her shoulders a bit as the pair changed sides. Zapping an ace down the T, Gauff backed up the break for a 7-5, 2-0 lead. When Gauff is applying her all-court acumen, she’s even more dangerous because then she can beat you with offense or defense. Shrewdly attacking with a deep drive down the middle to deny Sun an operable angle, Gauff blocked a slick backhand volley winner to break again for 3-0 lead after 75 minutes. By then, Gauff was 14 of 18 at net, including the impressive smash in the final game of set won, and had rolled through 23 of the prior 27 points. On the road to the round of 16, Gauff created her own obstacle double-faulting back the break in the fourth game. Resilience is an essential element of Gauff’s game. Shrugging off a sloppy serve game, Gauff hammered out the love break with some vicious strikes for a 4-1 lead. About 20 minutes before midnight, Gauff handcuffed the teenager with a forehand pass down the line to close it. The world No. 582 Sun certainly has a bright future, while Gauff aims to sustain her semifinal streak of success in China. “Taking it match by match,” Gauff said in her on-court interview. “I enjoy playing in front of you guys. “It was a fun match up. Yeah, just trying to get better each match.” Tennis Express • Pro Player Gear • Shop what the pros play with Filed under: Coco Gauff • Sun Xinran Share X Facebook WhatsApp Email Copy link More… Conversation 0 comments Join the conversation Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. More Tennis Now Latest stories Gauff Sees Big Future for Rising Sun Xinran Despite Losing 16 Straight Points, Alcaraz Remains Perfect in Tokyo Djokovic Confirms L.A. Olympic Aim Medvedev on Fan Strike: Terribly Sorry, 100% Accident Djokovic Reaches 7th Beijing Final As Medvedev is Disqualified for Striking Fan The Daily Rally Tennis news every morning. Free. Results, breaking news and one can’t-miss story from Tennis Now, in your inbox before the first ball. Email address Sign me up Unsubscribe any time. Live scores Follow every match. ATP and WTA tour-level matches receive priority. Open verified scores →